
# [Gender diversity training](#gender_diversity_training_bool)

### name_fr

Formation sur la diversité des genres

### item_type

metric

### data_type

boolean

### enums



### unit



### category_1

social

### category_2

diversity

### description_en

Gender mainstreaming means integrating a gender equality perspective at all stages and levels of
policies, programmes and projects. Gender diversity training provides initial steps at the
organisation level to contribute to this effort.

**Regulatory Definition**

It is a strategy to effect individual and collective transformation towards gender equality
through consciousness raising, empowering learning, knowledge building, and skill development.
Training helps men and women to build gender competence and acquire the knowledge and skills
necessary for advancing gender equality in their daily lives and work.


### description_fr

L’intégration du genre signifie intégrer une perspective d’égalité des sexes à toutes les étapes
et à tous les niveaux des politiques, programmes et projets. La formation sur la diversité des
genres fournit les premières étapes au niveau de l'organisation pour contribuer à cet effort.

**Définition réglementaire**

Il s’agit d’une stratégie visant à réaliser une transformation individuelle et collective vers
l’égalité des sexes par la sensibilisation, l’autonomisation de l’apprentissage, le renforcement
des connaissances et le développement des compétences. La formation aide les hommes et les femmes
à développer leurs compétences en matière de genre et à acquérir les connaissances et les
compétences nécessaires pour faire progresser l’égalité des sexes dans leur vie quotidienne et
professionnelle.

### value_question_en

Did the company offer diversity training, during the period?

### value_question_fr


L'entreprise a-t-elle proposé une formation à la diversité, au cours de la période?

### summary_en

Gender diversity training combines various educational activities that aim at strengthening
people’s skills and knowledge of gender mainstreaming.

### summary_fr

La formation sur la diversité des genres combine diverses activités éducatives visant à renforcer
les compétences et les connaissances des personnes en matière d’intégration du genre.

### compute_en



### compute_fr



### examples_en

Offer regular workshops, education and training to all employees centered around various equality
and diversity topics.

### examples_fr

Proposer régulièrement des ateliers, des activités d'éducation et de formation à tous les employés
centrés sur divers sujets d'égalité et de diversité.

### support_docs_en

- Employee training data
- Diversity & Gender Equality Policy

### support_docs_fr

- Données de formation des employés
- Politique de diversité et d'égalité des sexes

### sources

- [UN Women: Training for gender equality and women's empowerment](https://www.unwomen.org/en/how-we-work/capacity-development-and-training)
- [Council Directive 2000/78/EC of 27 November 2000 establishing a general framework for equal
treatment in employment and occupation](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32000L0078)

            