## Disclosure Requirement E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems

20. The undertaking shall describe its adopted policies to manage its material impacts, risks, dependencies, and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems.

21. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or remediation of its material biodiversity and ecosystem-related impacts, dependencies, risks and opportunities.

22. The disclosure required by paragraph 20 shall contain the information on the policies the undertaking has in place to manage its material impacts, risks, dependencies and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters).

23. In addition to the provisions of ESRS 2 MDR-P the undertaking shall describe whether and how its biodiversity and ecosystems-related policies:

	- (a) relate to the matters specified in ESRS E4 AR 4;
	- (b) relate to its material biodiversity and ecosystems-related impacts;
	- (c) relate to material dependencies and material physical and transition risks and opportunities;
	- (d) support traceability of products, components and raw materials with material actual or potential impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems along the value chain;
	- (e) address production, sourcing or consumption from ecosystems that are managed to maintain or enhance conditions for biodiversity, as demonstrated by regular monitoring and reporting of biodiversity status and gains or losses; and
	- (f) address social consequences of biodiversity and ecosystems-related impacts.

24. The undertaking shall specifically disclose whether it has adopted:

	- (a) biodiversity and ecosystem protection policy covering operational sites owned, leased, or managed in or near a biodiversity sensitive area;
	- (b) sustainable land / agriculture practices or policies (77);
	- (c) sustainable oceans / seas practices or policies (78); and
	- (d) policies to address deforestation (79).

---

(77) This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impact as set out by indicator #11 in Table II of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Investments in companies without sustainable land/agriculture practices”).

(78) This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impact as set out by indicator #12 in Table II of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Investments in companies without sustainable oceans/seas practices”).

(79) This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impact as set out by indicator #15 in Table II of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Deforestation”). 
