## Disclosure Requirement S4-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for consumers and end-users to raise concerns

23. The undertaking shall describe the processes it has in place to provide for or cooperate in the remediation of negative impacts on consumers and end-users that the undertaking is connected with, as well as channels available to consumers and end-users to raise concerns and have them addressed.

24. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the formal means by which consumers and/or end-users can make their concerns and needs known directly to the undertaking, and/or through which the undertaking supports the availability of such channels (for example, grievance mechanisms) by its business relationships, how follow up is performed with these consumers and/or end-users regarding the issues raised, and the effectiveness of these channels.

25. The undertaking shall describe:

	- (a) its general approach to and processes for providing or contributing to remedy where it has identified that it has caused or contributed to a material negative impact on consumers and/or end-users, including whether and how the undertaking assesses that the remedy provided is effective;
	- (b) any specific channels it has in place for consumers and/or end-users to raise their concerns or needs directly with the undertaking and have them addressed, including whether these are established by the undertaking itself and/or through participation in third-party mechanisms;
	- (c) the processes through which the undertaking supports or requires the availability of such channels by its business relationships; and
	- (d) how it tracks and monitors issues raised and addressed, and how it ensures the effectiveness of the channels, including through involvement of stakeholders who are the intended users.

26. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how it assesses that consumers and/or end-users are aware of and trust these structures or processes as a way to raise their concerns or needs and have them addressed. In addition, the undertaking shall disclose whether it has policies in place to protect individuals from retaliation when they use such structures or processes. If such information has been disclosed in accordance with ESRS G1-1, the undertaking may refer to that information.

27. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted a channel for raising concerns and/or does not support the availability of mechanisms by its business relationships, it shall disclose this to be the case. It may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to have such a channel or processes in place. 
