## E1-9.2 Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks

66. The disclosure of anticipated financial effects from material physical risks required by paragraph 64 	- (a) shall include:

- (a) the monetary amount and proportion (percentage) of assets at material physical risk over the short-, medium- and long-term before considering climate change adaptation actions; (41) with the monetary amounts of these assets disaggregated by acute and chronic physical risk (42)
- (b) the proportion of assets at material physical risk addressed by the climate change adaptation actions;
- (c) the location of significant assets at material physical risk; (43)
- (d) the monetary amount and proportion (percentage) of net revenue from its business activities at material physical risk over the short-, medium- and long-term. (44)

67. The disclosure of anticipated financial effects from material transition risks required by paragraph 64 	- (b) shall include:

- (a) the monetary amount and proportion (percentage) of assets at material transition risk over the short-, medium- and long-term before considering climate mitigation actions;
- (b) the proportion of assets at material transition risk addressed by the climate change mitigation actions;
- (c) a breakdown of the carrying value of the undertaking’s real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes; (45)
- (d) liabilities that may have to be recognised in financial statements over the short-, medium- and long-term; and
- (e) the monetary amount and proportion (percentage) of net revenue from its business activities at material transition risk over the short-, medium- and long-term including, where relevant, the net revenue from the undertaking’s customers operating in coal, oil and gas-related activities. (46)


(41) This disclosure requirement is consistent with the requirements included in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 - Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk.

(42) This disclosure requirement is consistent with the requirements included in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 - Template 5: Banking book - Climate change physical risk: Exposures subject to physical risk.

(43) This disclosure requirement is consistent with the requirements included in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453- Template 2: Banking book - Climate change transition risk: Loans collateralised by immovable property - Energy efficiency of the collateral.

(44) This information is aligned with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (Climate Benchmark Regulation).

(45) This disclosure requirement is consistent with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2453 - Template 2 immovable property, energy efficiency of the collateral.

(46) This information is aligned with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (Climate Benchmark Regulation). 
