## Disclosure Requirement S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts

20. The undertaking shall disclose its general processes for engaging with value chain workers and their representatives about actual and potential impacts on them.

21. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of whether and how the undertaking engages, as part of its ongoing due diligence process, with value chain workers and their legitimate representatives, or with credible proxies, about material actual and potential positive and/or negative impacts that do or are likely to affect them, and whether and how perspectives of value chain workers are taken into account in the decision-making processes of the undertaking.

22. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how the perspectives of value chain workers inform its decisions or activities aimed at managing the actual and potential impacts on value chain workers. This shall include, where relevant, an explanation of:

	- (a) whether engagement occurs with value chain workers or their legitimate representatives directly, or with credible proxies that have insight into their situation;
	- (b) the stage	- (s) at which engagement occurs, the type of engagement, and the frequency of the engagement;
	- (c) the function and the most senior role within the undertaking that has operational responsibility for ensuring that this engagement happens, and that the results inform the undertaking’s approach;
	- (d) where applicable, Global Framework Agreements or for agreements that the undertaking has with global union federations related to respect of human rights of workers in the value chain, including their right to bargain collectively, and including an explanation of how the agreement enables the undertaking to gain insight into those workers’ perspectives;
	- (e) where applicable, how the undertaking assesses the effectiveness of its engagement with workers in the value chain, including, where relevant, any agreements or outcomes that result.

23. Where applicable, the undertaking shall disclose the steps it takes to gain insight into the perspectives of workers that may be particularly vulnerable to impacts and/or marginalized (for example, women workers, migrant workers, workers with disabilities).

24. If the undertaking cannot disclose the above required information because it has not adopted a general process to engage with workers in the value chain, it shall disclose this to be the case. It may disclose a timeframe in which it aims to have such a process in place. 
