## Disclosure Requirement S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers

14. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts on value chain workers, as well as associated material risks and opportunities.

15. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or remediation of material impacts on value chain workers specifically, as well as policies that cover material risks or opportunities related to value chain workers.

16. The disclosure required by paragraph 14 shall contain the information on the undertaking’s policies to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to value chain workers in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters. In addition, the undertaking shall specify whether such policies cover specific groups of value chain workers or all value chain workers.

17. The undertaking shall describe its human rights policy commitments (105) that are relevant to value chain workers, including those processes and mechanisms to monitor compliance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (106). In its disclosure, it shall focus on those matters that are material in relation to, as well as the general approach to:
    	- (a) respect for the human rights, including labour rights, of workers;
    	- (b) engagement with value chain workers; and
    	- (c) measures to provide and/or enable remedy for human rights impacts.

18. The undertaking shall state whether its policies in relation to value chain workers explicitly address trafficking in human beings (107), forced labour or compulsory labour and child labour. It shall also state whether the undertaking has a supplier code of conduct (108).

19. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how its policies with regard to value chain workers are aligned with internationally recognised instruments relevant to value chain workers, including the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (109). The undertaking shall also disclose the extent to which cases of non-respect of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises that involve value chain workers have been reported in its upstream and downstream value chain and, if applicable, an indication of the nature of such cases (110).


---

**(105)** This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #9 in Table III of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack of a human rights policy”). 

**(106)** This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #11 in Table I of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (’Lack of processes and compliance mechanisms to monitor compliance with UN Global Compact principles and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises’). 

**(107)** This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #11 in Table III of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack of processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings”). 

**(108)** This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #4 in Table III of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack of a supplier code of conduct”). 

**(109)** This information supports the needs of benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 as set out by indicator “Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to companies without due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organisation Conventions 1 to 8” in section 1 and 2 of Annex II.

**(110)** This information supports the information needs of: financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #10 in Table I of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments; and benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 as set out by indicators “Number of benchmark constituents subject to social violations (absolute number and relative divided by all benchmark constituents), as referred to in international treaties and conventions, United Nations principles and, where applicable, national law” and “Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to companies without due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organisation Conventions 1 to 8” in section 1 and 2 of Annex II.
